For the general purpose of this software see doc.txt, for more
documentation docfunctions.txt, for how to start see below.

------------------------------------------------------------------
DELIVERED FILES
  readme : this file
  doc.txt : describes general purpose and an application issue
  docfunctions.txt : documentation of the library functions. 
  cmaes_interface.h : User interface header.   
  example_short.c : Very short example source code. The purpose of
               the example codes is to be edited/extended.  
  example_restarts.c : implements additional restarts with increasing
               population size (Auger & Hansen 2005). 
  example_boundary.c : combination with boundary handling (box 
     constraints)
  example_noise.c : (future versions) implements an additional 
               uncertainty handling (Hansen et al 2009). 
  cmaes.h : Header, e.g. declaration of struct cmaes_t.  
  cmaes.c : Source code. 
  initials.par : Parameters to be read by the cmaes, e.g. problem
      dimension, initial search point and initial standard deviation. 
      This file should be edited. 
  signals.par : File for controlling the running program. Printing 
      or writing to a file/console can be set on/off while the program 
      is running. Regular termination can be forced. On delivery
      the writing is in accordance with the plotting using: 
  plotcmaesdat.m : Plots default output files in Matlab or Octave.
  plotcmaesdat.sci : Plots default output files in Scilab. 
  boundary_transformation.c : implements a boundary transformation
  boundary_transformation.h : header file. 

FILES YOU MAY NEED TO EDIT
  example_*.c:  Plug in the objective function (pointer) that should 
    be minimized. 
  cmaes_initials.par: Parameter file for changing e.g. initial values and
    stopping criteria without recompiling. 
  cmaes_signals.par: File to control termination and output during 
    runtime. 


Output files written by cmaes_t: 
  actparcmaes.par : Parameters as actually used by the program. The
                    actual parameter setting is appended to the file  
                    after each start of the cmaes. 
  errcmaes.err  : Error messages. 


------------------------------------------------------------------
HOW TO START:

  0) Unpack tar ball: under Linux, MSYS, etc... typing 
     "tar -xzf cmaes_c.tar.gz" unpacks all files into a folder cma.

  A1) Take five minutes to look at file example_short.c. 

  A2) You might have a glance at the documentation provided in file
     docfunctions.txt.

  A3) You might have a glance at initials.par, where input parameters
     are defined. 

  B1) Compile and run the example program. Compilation e.g. with 
     the GNU c-compiler:
	"gcc -Wall -lm -o evo cmaes.c example_short.c "
     and run with "evo" or "./evo". Take a look at the output. 

  B2a) (optional but highly recommended) Invoke Scilab (freely available
     for Linux/Windows/Mac) or Matlab/Octave, change to the working directory 
     and type (Scilab)
        getf('plotcmaesdat.sci'); plotcmaesdat; 
     or (Matlab/Octave)
        plotcmaesdat;
     You need to have the file plotcmaesdat.sci or .m and the
     output data files in the working directory. You get a nice plot
     of the executed run.

  B2b) (optional) Change (increase) problem dimension and/or problem
     number in file initials.par and re-run.

  B2c) (optional) Change problem dimension in initials.par to 300 and
     change output verbosity via file signals.par while the program
     is running: change e.g. "print fewinfo 200" into "print fewinfo
     -200" *and back*. Read comments. 

  B2d) Change back problem dimension.  

  5) Now you are ready to inspect and edit example_restarts.c or example_boundary.c
    to plug in the function you want to optimize. Refer to doc.txt for
    a practical issue on objective function design. Refer to
    docfunctions.txt to find more documentation about the functions in 
    this package. 

  6) Check "obligatory settings" part in initials.par regarding your
     function. Make sure that the scale of all objective parameter
     components of the function is somewhat similar and sigma
     corresponds to about 1/4 of the respective search intervals.

  7) output files are overwritten with each program call.  

Questions? Mail to hansen [at] lri.fr
